Sport-loving inventors whose tech could change the game
Sport-loving inventors whose tech could change the game
Not content to see their favourite sports sidelined, we meet three inventors who’ve committed their lives to innovation that could truly change the game. Unless your favourite sport is something that really pushes the boundaries, there’s a good chance the sport you love is ruled by tradition and age-old regulations. However, there is still plenty of scope for innovation. And, thanks to some brilliant minds, we’ve seen amazing technology make a difference to some of the world’s most traditional games.
Paul Hawkins: Hawk-Eye
Created by Dr Paul Hawkins in 1999, Hawk-Eye has dragged even some of the most conservative sports kicking and screaming into the 21st century. Though initially used to show TV viewers exactly what was happening in cricket – something even the layman can appreciate – over the past decade it’s gone onto much bigger and better things. It’s now an integral part of over 20 sports, including tennis, badminton, basketball, football, snooker and golf. Even high-octane action sports are getting in on the action, with NASCAR one of the latest to turn to the innovative analysis platform. And what began as a plucky startup, now turns an annual profit of around €34 million (£30 million).
Hawkins, who created Hawk-Eye after completing a PhD in Artificial Intelligence, credits his success to "following his dream." And, on receiving an honorary degree from Southampton Solent University, offered this advice: "Find that thing you love and then pursue it wholeheartedly."
John McGuire: Game Golf
On the face of it, golf can seem a conservative game, but behind the scenes it’s actually packed with technology – from high-tech golf clubs made out of cutting-edge materials, to balls designed for maximum aerodynamic efficiency. Another thing golfers are known for is their love of statistics, and that’s what prompted John McGuire to devise his Game Golf system in 2010.
McGuire, an entrepreneur with a history in telecommunications, sports and technology, designed Game Golf to work alongside existing equipment, with tiny tabs that attach to each and every golf club. These work alongside a GPS receiver to determine exactly how far a player is hitting each shot – to the centimetre.
An invention that monitors stats feels like a natural progression for McGuire, who started off on his own in 2004 with a performance consultancy company initially created to help people at both a personal and professional level, before deciding he could make an even bigger difference in golf.
"Our wearable technology captures a player’s entire game of golf without any input from the player while playing," says McGuire.
